Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance | Disability During Unemployment
Skip to content
XL
LG
MD
SM
XS
Official Site of The State of New Jersey
Governor Phil Murphy • Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ.gov
Services
Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Translate
The State of NJ site may contain optional links, information, services and/or content from other websites operated by third parties that are provided as a convenience, such as Google™ Translate. Google™ Translate is an online service for which the user pays nothing to obtain a purported language translation. The user is on notice that neither the State of NJ site nor its operators review any of the services, information and/or content from anything that may be linked to the State of NJ site for any reason. -
Read Full Disclaimer
close
Get Updates
close
Search
Search:
close
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
Home
File or Access Your Claim
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Leave
Unemployment Insurance
Social Security Disability
Worker Protections
Your Rights at Work
Workers' Compensation
Safety and Health
Licenses & Permits
Wage & Hour Compliance
Paid Sick Leave
Career Support
Career Services
Find a Job
Resume Writing Guidance
Vocational Rehabilitation Services
Apprenticeship Opportunities
Training Provider Information
Employer Services
Employer Accounts
Register a New Business
File a Quarterly Report
Employer Access
Employer Handbook
Employer Self-Service (NLx)
Layoffs and Closings
Shared Work Program
File a WARN notice
Wage & Hour Compliance
Equal Pay Act Reporting
Business Support
Return and Earn Program
Apprenticeship
Industry Partnerships
Employer Poster Packet
Research & Information
Labor Market Information
Center for Occupational Employment
Information (COEI)
Grant Opportunities
CARE Grant Program
Workforce Innovation &
Opportunity Act (WIOA)
Legal Notices
Press Releases
About Us
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Home
Information for Workers
Helpful Resources
Disability During Unemployment
Disability During Unemployment
Have an illness, injury, pregnancy or other physical or mental health condition but haven't worked recently and/or are collecting Unemployment benefits?
You may be eligible for Disability During Unemployment (DDU) benefits, a combination of Temporary Disability and Unemployment Insurance.
Apply Online
Start a new application
Finish an application you started
Manage an Existing Claim
Access Claim Documents
Download your 1099-G
Learn About Disability During Unemployment (DDU) Benefits:
Before Applying
How to Apply
After Being Approved/Denied
Download Forms
Frequently Asked Questions
About the Program
You may be eligible for Temporary Disability benefits through the Disability During Unemployment section if you become unable to work more than 14 days from your last day of work at an employer covered for New Jersey Temporary Disability Insurance (whether you are still employed or not).
You may become unable to work due to:
A physical or mental illness, (non-work related) injury or scheduled surgery.
Pregnancy and childbirth recovery.
An underlying health condition that makes you high risk for COVID-19, as certified by a licensed healthcare provider.
How Much Do I Need to Earn to Qualify?
If You're Applying for Temporary Disability After Receiving Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
In most cases, if you are applying for DDU benefits after being approved for Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Insurance you have already met the DDU minimum earnings requirement, provided all earnings used on your claim were in New Jersey and covered for Temporary Disability Insurance. Keep in mind, the Unemployment earnings criteria may include municipal, federal, military, and/or out of state wages. When qualifying for Disability During Unemployment benefits, those earnings do not count towards eligibility.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
Employers are required to report their employees' wages to the state after each calendar quarter is completed. When your claim is under review, we consider your New Jersey covered earnings reported for the 5 completed quarters prior to the week your disability period began. The first 4 quarters of that time frame is called the
base year
.
To qualify in 2023, you must have worked 20 weeks earning at least $260 weekly, or have earned a combined total of $13,000 in those four quarters (the base year).
To qualify in 2024, you must have worked 20 weeks earning at least $283 weekly, or have earned a combined total of $14,200 in those four quarters (the base year).
Your regular base year period consists of 52 weeks and is determined by the date you apply for Disability During Unemployment benefits, as outlined in the chart below:
If your claim is dated in:
Your claim is based on
earnings from:
January 2024
February 2024
March 2024
October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023
April 2024
May 2024
June 2024
January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023
July 2024
August 2024
September 2024
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
October 2024
November 2024
December 2024
July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024
The wages earned during your base year will determine the amount of weekly benefits you may receive, and the total amount you can collect during the life of a claim.
For workers who don't qualify with a standard base year, we have other ways of calculating a base year.
Click here
for more information on these alternate base years.
When Will My Claim Start?
If You're Applying for Temporary Disability After Applying For Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
If your previous claim met the earnings requirement to qualify, a 12-month period (known as the benefit year) was established. If you are now applying for Temporary Disability benefits within that benefit year, your Disability During Unemployment claim will have the same start date as your prior claim, whether you were previously approved for benefits or not.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
If you do not have an existing Unemployment Insurance or Family Leave During Unemployment claim that can be used, the date of claim will be the Sunday of the week in which you become unable to work and apply for DDU benefits. The benefit year is the 12-month period starting on the first day of benefits claimed.
For example, let's say Steve's first day of Disability During Unemployment is Friday, March 1, 2024 and he does not have a prior Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment claim. Steve's DDU claim will begin on the Sunday before his disability date (Sunday, February 25, 2024). His benefit year will run from Sunday, February 25, 2024 through Saturday, February 22, 2025.
How Much Will I Receive?
If You're Applying for Temporary Disability After Receiving Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
If you have an Unemployment Insurance or Family Leave During Unemployment claim and are now applying for DDU benefits, you typically will receive the same benefit rate for DDU as you were receiving on your prior approved claim, provided all earnings were in New Jersey and covered for Temporary Disability Insurance. Refer back to the monetary determination notice that you were issued for your prior approved claim, as you will not receive a new one for your DDU benefits.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
Your weekly benefit amount is 60% of your average weekly wage, up to a maximum benefit rate set for that calendar year.
The maximum weekly DDU benefit rate in 2023 is $830 per week.
The maximum weekly DDU benefit rate in 2024 is $854 per week.
Benefits are paid for full calendar weeks, beginning Sunday and ending Saturday. After we begin to review your application, you will be mailed a notice explaining your weekly benefit amount and your maximum benefit entitlement. This notice will list all New Jersey covered employers that you worked for during the base year and the wages they reported for you. You should review the monetary determination carefully as soon as you receive it. If you disagree with the benefit amount indicated, or if any employer information is incorrect or incomplete, you should file a written appeal and include documentation to substantiate what needs to be changed. The monetary determination explains how to file an appeal, or you can
click here
to learn about the appeal process.
Dependency Benefits:
If you have not already qualified for the maximum weekly benefit rate if/when your claim is approved, you may be entitled to additional benefits as a dependency benefit. Dependency benefits are payable at 7% of your basic weekly benefit rate for your first dependent and then at 4% for each of the next two dependents (you may claim no more than three dependents). You will be sent instructions on how to qualify and apply for dependency benefits after you file your claim.
A dependent may be:
an unemployed spouse or civil union partner;
unemployed, unmarried children (including stepchild, and/or legally adopted child) under the age of 19;
unemployed, unmarried children (including stepchild, and/or legally adopted child)  under the age of 22 if attending a public or other nonprofit educational institution full time.
*If your spouse or civil union partner is unemployed and claimed your children as dependents on their Unemployment claim, you cannot claim the same children as dependents on your Disability During Unemployment claim.
How Long Can I Receive Benefits?
If You're Applying for Temporary Disability After Receiving Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
When transitioning from one program to another, the maximum amount of benefits you can collect
total
(during Unemployment, Disability During Unemployment, and Family Leave During Unemployment benefits combined) is one and one-half times the maximum benefit amount of your initial Unemployment claim. Be aware that the maximum benefit amount applies to standard Unemployment benefits only and is not impacted by pandemic related benefit extensions that may be in place at the time of your filing.
For example, let's say Sarah was collecting Unemployment benefits but is now applying for Temporary Disability and her Unemployment approval notice shows a maximum benefit of $10,000. If Sarah is approved for Disability During Unemployment, the most she can collect from Unemployment and Disability During Unemployment
combined
,
is $15,000 in benefits (one and one-half times the maximum benefit amount of her initial Unemployment claim).
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
You may receive one week of benefits for each base week you worked in your
base year
period, up to a maximum of 26 weeks. In 2024, a base week is any week with earnings of $283 or more.
For example, let's say in Sarah's base year period she worked 22 weeks earning atleast $283. If Sarah's DDU claim is approved, she may collect up to 22 weeks of benefits in the benefit year.
How the Program is Funded
Both New Jersey workers and employers contribute to the cost of Temporary Disability Insurance coverage.
Cost to Workers
.
For 2022, workers contribute 0.14% on the first $151,900 (the
wage cap
) in covered wages earned during this calendar year. The maximum worker contribution for 2022 is $212.66. This contribution is in the form of a salary deduction that your employer takes from your weekly wages.
There will be no Temporary Disability worker contribution deductions for the 2023 and 2024 calendar years.
Cost to Employers
The contribution rate for employers varies from 0.10% to 0.75% of the wage cap. On January 1 of each year, the wage cap changes.
For 2023, employers contribute between $41.10 and $308.25 on the first $41,100 earned by each employee during this calendar year.
For 2024, employers contribute between $42.30 and $317.25 on the first $42,300 earned by each employee during this calendar year.
Application Process:
You can apply for Disability During Unemployment benefits
online
,
in the mail, or by fax
. Instructions are included on the application. Read all the instructions carefully before completing the application. If filing by mail or fax, don’t forget to sign and date the form.
When you apply for DDU benefits, we’ll need information from you, and
your medical provider
. It is
your
responsibility to have all this information – including the medical provider part – submitted to us online, by mail, or by fax.
This is the information we need to complete your application:
From you:
Your Social Security number, contact information, and date of birth
The date you became disabled
Contact information for the medical provider who treated you within 10 days of the first day you were unable to work
Dates of any emergency/urgent care treatment or hospitalizations
Dates you worked for any employers in the last 6 months, the employers’ contact information, and the address(es) where you worked
The date when you expect to recover (or the date you recovered)
From your doctor:
A medical certification to confirm the period you are unable to work
When you complete your part online, you will get a unique
Online Form ID
number to give to your medical provider. They will use this number to submit their part to us online. You will be prompted to print out (or save as a PDF file) a page that has your unique Online Form ID number, along with instructions for your medical provider to follow. If you do not have access to a printer when initially filing your application, you have a fourteen day window to return and print the instructions when a printer is available. You can do so by clicking
Access claim documents
at the top of this page.
If planning ahead, you can start the online application process up to 60 days' in advance and it will be saved as a draft. Once your disability period begins, you must return to your draft (within 14 days' of the start of your leave) to certify and submit your application. If applying after disability period begins, you have 30 days' from your first day of disability to file your application.
Tips On Applying
We would like to process your claim quickly, but can’t do it without your help.
Keep these tips in mind to avoid delays and receive your benefits faster:
Apply online.
It’s faster than printing and mailing or faxing your application to us.
Remember,
it is your responsibility to give these instructions to the medical provider to complete – they are
not
automatically notified by our system. If you do apply online, do not
also
submit that claim by mail or fax. That may delay the processing of your application.
Fill out your application completely and accurately
. Read all instructions first. If you’re not sure how to answer a question, check out our
FAQ
or
Form Look Up
for more information. If you still need help,
contact us
.
Include your Social Security number
on all correspondence.
Don’t fax us pictures of documents.
If you want to submit a digital copy of a document, use a free mobile app like
Adobe Scan
or
Dropbox
to transform a mobile phone picture into a high-contrast, black-and-white PDF file you can print and fax.
Get ready to receive your payments.
Money Network/My Banking Direct will mail your prepaid debit card in a plain envelope that may look like junk mail, so check
all
your mail carefully. If you already have a debit card from a previous Temporary Disability, Family Leave, or Unemployment Insurance claim, we will use that same card to pay benefits for new claims. If you can’t find your card,
contact Money Network/My Banking Direct
for a replacement.
What to Expect After Applying
Once we receive your application and see that you fit the criteria for Disability During Unemployment, we may
temporarily
deny your application as a way of routing it to the proper DDU section. This temporary denial is our internal process of reassigning your claim and has no reflection on the content of your application. Once a Disability During Unemployment examiner receives your application, it will be reviewed for claim approval.
If You're Applying for Temporary Disability After Receiving Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
In general, when an Unemployment Insurance or Family Leave During Unemployment claim exists, DDU applications with complete information are determined within seven to ten days from the date of receipt. If you were receiving Unemployment Insurance, there may be a delay in benefits from when you stop your weekly certification and when DDU starts paying you-as it will take time for your new application to make it's way to an examiner. You will be paid retroactively by Disability During Unemployment for this delay. If you were receiving Family Leave During Unemployment and you provided them with the disability paperwork, they may initiate the transfer of your claim to DDU so that the transition is seamless.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
When an Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment claim does not exist, additional information must be gathered and it may take approximately three to four weeks to issue a determination.
Forms You May Receive
If You Are Not Collecting Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
Questionnaire Packet: If your first day of disability does not fall within the benefit year of an existing Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment claim, we may need to ask you additional questions that are required by Unemployment law. This may include why you stopped working, if you own a business, if you work for a school, or are a student. We also provide the application for dependency benefits and a form to complete to withhold 10% of your benefits for federal income taxes. The sooner you complete and return this packet the sooner your claim can be reviewed.
How You'll Get Your Money
If You're Applying for Temporary Disability After Receiving Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
If you have received a Direct Deposit into your bank account for an existing Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment claim within 28 days of the start of your disability, your Direct Deposit information will carry over to your DDU claim.
If you are not signed up for Direct Deposit and already have a debit card from a previous Temporary Disability, Family Leave, or Unemployment Insurance claim, we will use that same card to pay benefits for new claims. If you can’t find your card,
contact Money Network/My Banking Direct
directly for a replacement.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Family Leave During Unemployment Benefits:
Benefit payments are most commonly issued to
debit cards
sent to you by Money Network/My Banking Direct. Money Network/My Banking Direct will mail your prepaid debit card in a plain envelope which may look like junk mail, so check
all
your mail carefully. If you already have a debit card from a prior claim (within the last four years), we will use that same card to pay benefits for new claims. If you can’t find your card,
contact Money Network/My Banking Direct
directly for a replacement. Temporary Disability does not offer Direct Deposit. However, you can arrange for your benefits to be automatically transferred from your debit card account to your personal checking or savings account by contacting Money Network/My Banking Direct.
Once your claim has been determined eligible, payments are usually issued on a weekly basis. However, there are times during your claim where your payment may cover a period of more than one week.
Disability During Unemployment benefits are paid in full weeks only. A full week runs from Sunday through Saturday.
No federal income tax is withheld from your benefits unless you request this deduction when applying online or by mail.
You may receive benefits until you recover, return to work, exhaust your maximum benefit entitlement, or the benefit year of your claim expires. We will periodically require medical certification throughout that time to confirm you are still disabled and still under a doctor’s care.
How to Continue Receiving DDU Benefits
After you start receiving Disability During Unemployment Insurance, we may ask you to provide us with proof of your continuing disability to keep receiving benefits.
A form called
Claim for Continued Benefits
is mailed to you before your last authorized benefit payment. Additional benefits will not be approved until the completed form is received. If you lost or never received the form, you can
download it here.
Be sure that your Social Security number is listed on each page. Return your completed forms to:
Disability During Unemployment
P.O. Box 956
Trenton, NJ 08625-0956
or FAX to: 609-292-9209
Reasons Benefits May be Reduced or Denied
Disability During Unemployment benefits are
NOT
payable for:
any period that is less than seven consecutive days.
any period you are not under medical care. You must be under the care of a legally licensed physician, dentist, podiatrist, chiropractor, optometrist, psychologist, certified nurse midwife, or advanced practice nurse.
any period that you receive Unemployment Insurance benefits, Family Leave Insurance benefits, any benefits from a disability or cash sickness program or similar law of New Jersey or any other state or the federal government.
any period when you receive full salary or paid time off.
any period during which you perform any work for remuneration or profit.
any period during which you would be disqualified under the Unemployment Compensation Law for voluntarily quitting your job, termination due to misconduct or gross misconduct, refusal of suitable work, or fraud.
work related disabilities. However, if your disability is work related and your employer's workers' compensation carrier denies you benefits or if the workers' compensation carrier stops benefit payments, you may file a claim with the
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
.
any period of disability due to willfully and intentionally self-inflicted injury, or injury sustained in the perpetration by the claimant of a criminal act under the New Jersey Code of Criminal Justice.
any period you are out of work due to a labor dispute at your place of work.
Tax Information
Disability During Unemployment benefits under are not taxable for New Jersey state income tax purposes. However, benefits are subject to federal income tax. You may voluntarily request to have 10% of your weekly benefits withheld. If you are interested in having federal income tax withheld from your weekly benefits, contact Disability During Unemployment in writing at:
Disability During Unemployment
P.O. Box 956
Trenton, NJ 08625-0956
After the end of each calendar year, Form 1099-G will be available in our online system for you to
download
and use when filing your federal income tax return. This form lists the total New Jersey State Disability During Unemployment benefits received that calendar year. This information is also sent to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
Appeals
If you disagree with any written determination you receive from the Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance,
you may file an appeal.
Each determination contains a written statement concerning your appeal rights.
Your appeal must be received or postmarked within seven days after delivery or ten days after the date of the mailing of the determination, except an appeal from a Demand for Refund. Any appeal from a Demand for Refund must be received or postmarked within 20 calendar days after delivery of the notice or 24 days after the mailing date of the notice.
When an appeal is filed, you will be notified by mail of the date and time of an appeals hearing. Be sure to be available at the phone whose number you provided on your claim. If you will not be available during your scheduled hearing, you must notify the appeals office as soon as possible so your hearing can be rescheduled.
Your telephone interview with an Appeal Tribunal examiner will not cost you anything. It is not necessary to have an attorney present during the hearing, but you can be represented by an attorney or any other person you choose. You will be notified of the results of the hearing by mail.
Independent Medical Examinations
During the course of your disability, you may be required to submit to a physical examination by a state-appointed physician. The examination is a routine procedure of this agency to insure that disability insurance benefits are being paid properly and do not affect the relationship between you and your doctor.
There is no charge to you for this examination and the results of the examination will be kept confidential. You will be referred to a doctor located as close as possible to your home.
Important:
Your disability benefits may be terminated if you are scheduled for an examination and do not report.
Notification of Information Change Form
A
Notification of Information Change form
will be mailed to you. This form should be completed and returned to our office if you need to update your information, such as your address, your availability for work, or you recover from your disability or return to work. Remember: If you have received a debit card and you need to change your address, you must also notify Money Network/My Banking Direct of your new address. The bank can be contacted through their website at
https://mbd.everywherepaycard.com/
or by their toll free number, 888-292-0059.
Claim for Continued Benefits Form
A
Claim for Continued Benefits
is mailed to you when additional medical certification is required to evaluate your claim for continued benefits. Download this form if your Claim for Continued Benefits was not received, was misplaced, or was destroyed. Additional benefits will not be approved until the completed form is received.
Be sure that your Social Security number is listed on each page. Return your completed forms to: Disability During Unemployment
P.O. Box 956
Trenton, NJ 08625-0956 or FAX to: 609-292-9209.
Note: Disability During Unemployment is a state administered benefit program, therefore
federal Unemployment extensions do not apply.
I am currently collecting Unemployment Insurance. How do I stop collecting Unemployment, and apply for Disability During Unemployment Insurance benefits?
The best way to transition from Unemployment Insurance to DDU is to stop claiming weekly Unemployment benefits. You do not need to notify the Division of Unemployment Insurance that you are no longer collecting benefits from them; simply stop certifying weekly. Once you stop certifying for Unemployment, complete an
application for Temporary Disability Insurance
and submit it. Once we receive your application and see that you meet the criteria for Disability During Unemployment, your application will be temporarily denied. You may notice that your online claim status will read “Ineligible,” but don’t worry as this temporary denial is simply our internal process of reassigning your claim to the proper section of DDU and has no reflection on the content of your application. Once a Disability During Unemployment examiner receives your application, it will be reviewed for claim approval. The time between when you stop certifying for weekly Unemployment benefits and when DDU starts paying you will cause a temporary disruption in benefits as it will take time for your new application to make its way to DDU. If approved, you will be paid retroactively by Disability During Unemployment benefits for this period.
I was collecting Unemployment benefits before I became disabled. Can I go back to Unemployment Insurance after I recover? How?
Yes, you may reopen your Unemployment Insurance claim and resume collecting Unemployment benefits, provided you have not already claimed one and one-half times the maximum benefit amount of your initial claim.
For example, let's say Sarah initially collected Unemployment benefits followed by Disability During Unemployment benefits. Her Unemployment approval notice shows a maximum benefit of $10,000. If Sarah wishes to reopen her Unemployment claim, the most she can collect from Unemployment and Disability During Unemployment
combined
,
is $15,000 in benefits (one and one-half times the maximum benefit amount of her initial Unemployment claim).
I am not unemployed. Why is my claim with the Disability During Unemployment section?
Your application for benefits may be referred to Disability During Unemployment whether you are currently employed or not. Your application also may be referred to DDU even if your employer provides private disability insurance instead of the state insurance plan. The key criteria is that your disability period (the first day you were medically unable to work) began
more than
14 days from your last physical day of work or pay: including any sick, vacation or other paid time off.
Why do I need to fill out additional forms if I already answered all of the questions on the application?
When we receive an application that is referred to Disability During Unemployment, we often only have the information needed to comply with the Temporary Disability benefits law and not the Unemployment Insurance law. In these cases, we send a questionnaire with additional criteria needed for Unemployment, such as the reason for separation from work, if you wish to claim dependency benefits, and if you received any sick, vacation, or other paid time off after your last day of work. Be sure to complete and return the entire questionnaire so that we may review your claim for eligibility. If you are claiming DDU benefits immediately after receiving Unemployment, we already have this information from your Unemployment claim.
Missing Medical Information
The Temporary Disability benefit application consists of your part along with your healthcare provider's part. When completing the application online, be sure to provide your healthcare provider with your unique form ID number (provided after submitting your statement). They will use this number to submit their part to us online. It is your responsibility to provide them with your form ID number and it isn't automatically sent to them. If completing the
paper
benefit application, you must complete Parts A and B and have your healthcare provider complete Part C-Medical Certificate. If we do not receive a medical statement either online or through the paper application, we will send you additional paperwork to complete causing a delay or temporary denial of your benefits.
I had to stop working because of my disability, but wasn’t able to get an appointment with a specialist for a long time. Can I be paid from when I stopped working?
Benefits will only be issued for the period that you are disabled and are under the care of a medical provider within 10 days of the date you first became disabled.
How often must my healthcare provider complete a medical certification?
After your initial treatment, there is no set requirement for how often you must see your medical provider as each medical condition varies. However, in order to keep receiving benefits, we may periodically ask for proof from your doctor that you are still unable to work and under continuous medical care.
Why am I getting 60% of my average earnings instead of 85%?
Disability During Unemployment provides benefits at the rate allowed by the Unemployment Insurance law. Therefore your weekly benefit amount is 60% of your average weekly wage, up to a maximum benefit rate set for that calendar year rather than the higher rate provided by the Temporary Disability program.
I was denied unemployment benefits because I quit my job. I have not had any other employment since then and I am now disabled. Can I collect Disability During Unemployment Benefits?
Any disqualifications applied to an Unemployment Insurance claim also apply to a Disability During Unemployment claim. By law, Unemployment Insurance benefits can only be collected by people who lose their job “through no fault of their own,” such as an employer’s lack of work or a layoff due to downsizing. If you voluntarily quit your job for reasons that were not work-related, or you were terminated for misconduct, your eligibility will need to be reviewed. To remove a disqualification for voluntary leaving, you must return to work (in covered employment) for at least eight weeks, earn at least 10 times your weekly benefit rate, and
then
become unemployed through no fault of your own.
Why is my DDU benefit amount lower than my Unemployment benefit amount?
On an Unemployment Insurance claim, the weekly benefit rate may include municipal, federal, military, and/or out of state wages. When calculating your Disability During Unemployment weekly benefit rate, those earnings do not count towards eligibility. Therefore, you may notice a significant difference in your DDU weekly benefit amount if your Unemployment claim incorporated those earnings.
Can I collect 39 weeks of benefits if I am transitioning from one program to another, such as Unemployment to DDU?
The longest a claimant can collect when combining benefits from one program to another (Unemployment/Disability During Unemployment and Family Leave During Unemployment) is capped at a maximum of 39 benefit weeks. But not everyone is entitled to 39 weeks if it is more than one and one-half times
your
maximum benefit amount.
Maximum Benefit Amount=
the number of weeks you worked (up to 26 weeks) during the
base year
period multiplied by your weekly benefit rate. Since it is based on
your
employment before the claim began, everyone's maximum benefit amount and duration is unique to their individual claim.
What happens if the benefit year on my claim ends but I am still disabled? Would I qualify for a new claim?
A claim remains in effect for one year from the first day you claim either Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment benefits. Although your disability may continue and a balance of benefits may remain, you cannot claim those benefits once the year has expired. If you remain disabled after your benefit year has ended, we will automatically review your prior earnings and additional criteria to establish another claim immediately following the end of your benefit year.
What can I apply for next if I exhausted my Disability During Unemployment claim?
If you have exhausted your DDU claim and are still disabled, you may apply for long term
Social Security Disability
benefits provided by the federal government.
Click here
for additional programs that may be of assistance to you.
Print an Application
Although the quickest way to apply is online, you can print out a paper application to submit by mail or fax if you prefer.
DOWNLOAD HERE >
Contact DDU
Phone:
609-292-3349 / 609-292-3842
Fax:
609-292-9209
Disability During Unemployment
PO Box 956 | Trenton | NJ | 08625-0956
COMPLETE INQUIRY FORM >
Read our Printable Handout
Cash benefits for those who are unable to work due to a health condition or pregnancy/childbirth, and haven’t been employed recently and/or are collecting unemployment benefits.
click here to learn about Disability During Unemployment
LEARN MORE >
Family Leave During Unemployment
If your period of family leave begins more than 14 days after your last day of work, you may be eligible for benefits under the Family Leave During Unemployment (FLDU) program.
click here to learn about Family Leave During Unemployment
LEARN MORE >
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Statewide
Governor Phil Murphy
Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ Home
Services A to Z
Departments/Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
Privacy Notice
Legal Statement & Disclaimers
Accessibility Statement
Copyright © State of New Jersey, 1996-
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
1 John Fitch Plaza,
Trenton, NJ 08625
Tax Season Is Here!
×
If you collected Disability During Unemployment benefits in 2023, don't forget to log in to your account and
download a 1099-G form
for your 2023 tax return.
Close
×