Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance | Family Leave During Unemployment
Skip to content
XL
LG
MD
SM
XS
Official Site of The State of New Jersey
Governor Phil Murphy • Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ.gov
Services
Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Translate
The State of NJ site may contain optional links, information, services and/or content from other websites operated by third parties that are provided as a convenience, such as Google™ Translate. Google™ Translate is an online service for which the user pays nothing to obtain a purported language translation. The user is on notice that neither the State of NJ site nor its operators review any of the services, information and/or content from anything that may be linked to the State of NJ site for any reason. -
Read Full Disclaimer
close
Get Updates
close
Search
Search:
close
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
Home
File or Access Your Claim
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Leave
Unemployment Insurance
Social Security Disability
Worker Protections
Your Rights at Work
Workers' Compensation
Safety and Health
Licenses & Permits
Wage & Hour Compliance
Paid Sick Leave
Career Support
Career Services
Find a Job
Resume Writing Guidance
Vocational Rehabilitation Services
Apprenticeship Opportunities
Training Provider Information
Employer Services
Employer Accounts
Register a New Business
File a Quarterly Report
Employer Access
Employer Handbook
Employer Self-Service (NLx)
Layoffs and Closings
Shared Work Program
File a WARN notice
Wage & Hour Compliance
Equal Pay Act Reporting
Business Support
Return and Earn Program
Apprenticeship
Industry Partnerships
Employer Poster Packet
Research & Information
Labor Market Information
Center for Occupational Employment
Information (COEI)
Grant Opportunities
CARE Grant Program
Workforce Innovation &
Opportunity Act (WIOA)
Legal Notices
Press Releases
About Us
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Home
Information for Workers
Helpful Resources
Family Leave During Unemployment
Family Leave During Unemployment
Need to bond with a new addition to your family or care for a loved one, but you haven't worked recently and/or are collecting Unemployment benefits?
You may be eligible for Family Leave During Unemployment (FLDU) benefits, a combination of the Family Leave and Unemployment Insurance programs.
Click here
for a printable handout about Family Leave During Unemployment benefits.
Apply Online
Start a new application
Finish an application you started
Manage an Existing Claim
Access claim documents
Download your 1099-G
Learn About Family Leave During Unemployment (FLDU) Benefits:
Before Applying
How to Apply
After Being Approved/Denied
Frequently Asked Questions
About the Program
If your first day of family leave is more than 14 days after your last day of covered New Jersey employment and you are not on an approved leave of absence from your employer, your family leave claim is processed under the Family Leave During Unemployment program.  Claims filed under this program are governed by both the Unemployment Compensation and Temporary Disability Benefits Laws.  Benefits may be claimed to:
Bond with a newborn, newly adopted or newly placed foster child.
Care for a loved one with a serious health condition.
Handle matters related to domestic or sexual violence that you or a loved one experienced.
How Much Do I Need to Earn to Qualify?
If You're Applying for Family Leave After Receiving Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
All of the Department of Labor benefit programs have the same minimum earnings requirement. Therefore, if you are applying for Family Leave During Unemployment benefits after being approved for Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Insurance, you have already met the required earnings to receive benefits.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
Employers are required to report their employees' wages to the state after each calendar quarter is completed. When your claim is under review, we consider the earnings reported for the 5 completed quarters prior to the week your family leave began. The first 4 quarters of that time frame is called the
base year
.
To qualify in 2023, you must have worked 20 weeks earning at least $260 weekly, or have earned a combined total of $13,000 in those four quarters (the base year).
To qualify in 2024, you must have worked 20 weeks earning at least $283 weekly, or have earned a combined total of $14,200 in those four quarters (the base year).
Your regular base year period consists of 52 weeks and is determined by the date you apply for Family Leave During Unemployment benefits, as outlined in the chart below:
If your claim is dated in:
Your claim is based on
earnings from:
January 2024
February 2024
March 2024
October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023
April 2024
May 2024
June 2024
January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023
July 2024
August 2024
September 2024
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
October 2024
November 2024
December 2024
July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024
The wages earned during your base year will determine the amount of weekly benefits you may receive, and the total amount you can claim in a given year.
For workers who don't qualify with a standard base year, we have other ways of calculating a base year.
Click here
for more information on these alternate base years.
When Will My Claim Start?
If You're Applying for Family Leave After Receiving Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
When you were approved for your Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment Insurance claim, a 365 day period, known as the benefit year, was established. If you are now applying for Family Leave benefits within that benefit year, your Family Leave claim will have the same start date as your prior approved claim.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
If you do not have an approved Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment claim that can be used, the date of claim will be the Sunday of the week in which you claim your first day of Family Leave During Unemployment benefits. The 12-month period starts on the first day of benefits claimed and lasts for the following 365 consecutive days.
How Much Will I Receive?
If You're Applying for Family Leave After Receiving Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
If you have an Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment claim and are now applying for FLDU benefits within that benefit year, you typically will receive the same benefit rate for FLDU as you were receiving on your Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment Insurance claim. Refer back to the monetary determination notice that you were issued for your prior approved claim, as you will not receive a new one for your Family Leave benefits.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
Your weekly benefit amount is 60% of your average weekly wage, up to a maximum benefit rate set for that calendar year.
The maximum weekly FLDU benefit rate in 2023 is $830 per week.
The maximum weekly FLDU benefit rate in 2024 is $854 per week.
Benefits are paid for full calendar weeks, beginning Sunday and ending Saturday. After we begin to review your application, you will be mailed a notice explaining your weekly benefit amount and your maximum benefit entitlement. This notice will list all New Jersey covered employers that you worked for during the base year and the wages they reported for you. You should review the monetary determination carefully as soon as you receive it. If you disagree with the benefit amount indicated, or if any employer information is incorrect or incomplete, you should file a written appeal and include documentation to substantiate what needs to be changed. The monetary determination explains how to file an appeal, or you can
click here
to learn about the appeal process.
Dependency Benefits:
If you have not already qualified for the maximum weekly benefit rate if/when your claim is approved, you may be entitled to additional benefits as a dependency benefit. Dependency benefits are payable at 7% of your basic weekly benefit rate for your first dependent and then at 4% for each of the next two dependents (you may claim no more than three dependents). You will be sent instructions on how to qualify and apply for dependency benefits after you file your claim.
A dependent may be:
an unemployed spouse or civil union partner;
unemployed, unmarried children (including stepchild, and/or legally adopted child) under the age of 19;
unemployed, unmarried children (including stepchild, and/or legally adopted child)  under the age of 22 if attending a public or other nonprofit educational institution full time.
*If your spouse or civil union partner is unemployed and claimed your children as dependents on their Unemployment claim, you cannot claim the same children as dependents on your Family Leave claim.
How Long Can I Receive Benefits?
If You're Applying for Family Leave After Receiving Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
When transitioning from one program to another, the maximum amount of benefits you can collect
total
(during Unemployment, Disability During Unemployment, and Family Leave During Unemployment benefits combined) is one and one-half times the maximum benefit amount of your initial Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment claim. Be aware that the maximum benefit amount applies to standard Unemployment benefits only and is not impacted by pandemic related benefit extensions that may be in place at the time of your filing.
For example, let's say Sarah was collecting Unemployment benefits but is now applying for Family Leave to care for an ill family member. Sarah's Unemployment approval notice shows a maximum benefit amount of 20 weeks of Unemployment benefits. If Sarah is approved for Family Leave During Unemployment, the most she can collect from Unemployment and Family Leave During Unemployment
combined
,
is 30 weeks of benefits (one and one-half times the maximum benefit amount of her initial Unemployment claim).
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
Family Leave During Unemployment benefits can be claimed for up to 12 consecutive weeks in a 12-month period, or up to eight weeks in a 12-month period if claiming benefits on a week-by-week intermittent basis. The 12-month period starts on the first day of Family Leave claimed and lasts for 365 consecutive days after.
Continuous or Non-Continuous (Intermittent) Leave:
Family Leave During Unemployment benefits do not need to be claimed all at once. You can claim your benefits in one continuous period, or claim benefits a week at a time to suit your needs. However, how you choose to claim your leave will determine the duration of leave to which you are entitled.
Continuous Leave: If you are claiming benefits in one continuous period of unpaid leave, you may receive up to
12 weeks of Family Leave During Unemployment benefits
in a row over a 12-month period.
Non-Continuous (intermittent) Leave: If you are claiming benefits on a week by week basis, you may receive up to
8 weeks of Family Leave During Unemployment benefits
in a 12-month period. Each week claimed must be on a Sunday through Saturday schedule.  You cannot claim benefits for partial weeks. If you take your leave in a non-continuous manner, let us know those dates
after
taking each week long segment.
How the Program is Funded:
The Family Leave program is financed 100% by worker payroll deductions. Employers do not contribute to the program.
For 2023, workers contribute 0.06% on the first $156,800 (
wage cap
) in covered wages earned during this calendar year. The maximum worker contribution for 2023 is $94.08. This contribution is in the form of a salary deduction that your employer takes from your weekly wages.
For 2024, workers contribute 0.09% on the first $161,400 (
wage cap
) in covered wages earned during this calendar year. The maximum worker contribution for 2024 is $145.26. This contribution is in the form of a salary deduction that your employer takes from your weekly wages.
On January 1 of each year, the wage cap and the contribution rate changes. If you overpay your Family Leave contributions in a calendar year, you can not take credit for the overpayment on the NJ1040. You may request a refund by downloading a
refund application
. For additional information, write to the Division of Employer Accounts, Worker Refund Unit, PO Box 910, Trenton NJ 08625-0910 or call them at 609-633-6400
Application Process:
Apply for Family Leave During Unemployment benefits by completing a Family Leave application (Form FL1)
online
,
in the mail, or by fax
. Instructions for filing your claim are included in the application. Read all the instructions carefully before completing the application. If filing by mail or fax, don’t forget to sign and date the form. If planning ahead, you can start the online application process up to 60 days in advance and it will be saved as a draft. Once your family leave begins, you must return to your draft (within 14 days of the start of your leave) to certify and submit your application. If applying after your leave begins, you have 30 days from your first day of leave to file your application. When you complete your part online, you will get a confirmation page showing your part is complete. If any information is missing or conflicting, you will be prompted to print out (or save as a PDF file) the applicable forms to complete and return to the division. If you do not have access to a printer when initially filing your application, you have a 14 day window to return and print the instructions when a printer is available. You can do so by clicking
Access claim documents
at the top of this page.
What We Need from You:
This is the information we need from you to complete your application:
Your Social Security number, contact information, and date of birth
The date your family leave begins
Dates you worked for any employers in the last 6 months, the employers’ contact information, and the address(es) where you worked
Dates of any paid time off or other benefits you received after the last day you worked
Your former employer(s) do not have to verify your wages when applying. All claims in the Department of Labor's Division of Income Security (Temporary Disability, Family Leave, Unemployment, Family Leave During Unemployment, Disability During Unemployment) use the quarterly wages reported to the state by your former employers. However, since Family Leave During Unemployment follows the Unemployment law, we will need to verify the reason for separation from your last employer such as being fired, laid off, on a leave of absence or voluntarily quit. If you were collecting Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment previously, your separation has already been investigated allowing your Family Leave application to be processed without any employer involvement. If you were not approved for Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment previously but still fit the criteria for the FLDU program, your last employer will need to be contacted to verify the reason for separation before benefits can be paid.
If You Are Applying for Family Leave Immediately After Receiving Benefits for A Pregnancy-Related Disability:
Family Leave for bonding immediately following a pregnancy-related disability has a one-page application that requires less information. Once you and your physician notify us of your actual delivery date, we will mail you an application for New Mother Bonding (Form FL2). You may file for Family Leave During Unemployment benefits once you recover from your pregnancy-related disability.
Tips On Applying:
We would like to process your claim quickly, but can’t do it without your help.
Keep these tips in mind to avoid delays and receive your benefits faster:
Apply online.
It’s faster than printing and mailing or faxing your application to us. If you are filing for family caregiving, it also allows your family member's medical provider to easily complete their section online once they get the required instructions from you.
Remember,
it is your responsibility to give these instructions to the medical provider to complete – they are
not
automatically notified by our system. If you do apply online, do not
also
submit that claim by mail or fax. That may delay the processing of your application.
Fill out your application completely and accurately
. Read all instructions first. If you’re not sure how to answer a question, check out our
FAQ
or
Form Look Up
for more information. If you still need help,
contact us
.
Include your Social Security number
on all correspondence.
Don’t fax us pictures of documents.
If you want to submit a digital copy of a document, use a free mobile app like
Adobe Scan
or
Dropbox
to transform a mobile phone picture into a high-contrast, black-and-white PDF file you can print and fax.
Get ready to receive your payments.
Money Network/My Banking Direct will mail your prepaid debit card in a plain envelope that may look like junk mail, so check
all
your mail carefully. If you already have a debit card from a previous Temporary Disability, Family Leave, or Unemployment Insurance claim, we will use that same card to pay benefits for new claims. If you can’t find your card,
contact Money Network/My Banking Direct
for a replacement.
What to Expect After Applying:
Once we receive your application and see that you fit the criteria for Family Leave During Unemployment, we may
temporarily
deny your application as a way of routing it to the proper FLDU section. This temporary denial is our internal process of reassigning your claim and has no reflection on the content of your application. Once a Family Leave During Unemployment examiner receives your application, it will be reviewed for claim approval.
If You're Applying for Family Leave After Receiving Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
In general, when an Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment claim exists, Family Leave applications with complete information are determined within seven to ten days from the date of receipt. If you were receiving Unemployment Insurance, there may be a delay in benefits from when you stop your weekly certification and when FLDU starts paying you-as it will take time for your new application to make it's way to an examiner. You will be paid retroactively by Family Leave During Unemployment for this delay. If you were receiving Disability During Unemployment Insurance and you provided them with Family Leave paperwork, they may initiate the transfer of your claim to FLDU so that the transition is seamless.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
When an Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment claim does not exist, additional information must be gathered and it may take approximately three to four weeks to issue a determination.
Forms You May Receive:
A
Notification of Information Change form
will be mailed to you. This form should be completed and returned to our office if you need to update your information, such as your address, when your family leave ends, your availability for work, or you return to work. Remember: If you have received a debit card and you need to change your address, you must also notify Money Network/My Banking Direct of your new address. The bank can be contacted through their website at: https://mbd.everywherepaycard.com/ or by their toll free number, 888-292-0059.
If You Are Not Collecting Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
Questionnaire Packet: If your first day of Family Leave does not fall within the benefit year of an existing Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment claim, we may need to ask you additional questions that are required by Unemployment law. This may include why you stopped working, if you own a business, if you work for a school, or are a student. We also provide the application for dependency benefits and a form to complete to withhold 10% of your benefits for federal income taxes. The sooner you complete and return this packet the sooner your claim can be reviewed.
How You Will Be Paid Benefits:
If You're Applying for Family Leave After Receiving Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
If you have received a Direct Deposit into your bank account for an existing Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment claim within 28 days of the start of your Family Leave claim, your Direct Deposit information will carry over to your Family Leave claim.
If you are not signed up for Direct Deposit and already have a debit card from a previous Temporary Disability, Family Leave, or Unemployment Insurance claim, we will use that same card to pay benefits for new claims. If you can’t find your card,
contact Money Network/My Banking Direct
for a replacement.
If You Did Not Collect Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Benefits:
Benefit payments are most commonly issued to
debit cards
sent to you by Money Network/My Banking Direct. Money Network/My Banking Direct will mail your prepaid debit card in a plain envelope which may look like junk mail, so check
all
your mail carefully. If you already have a debit card from a prior claim (within the last four years), we will use that same card to pay benefits for new claims. If you can’t find your card,
contact Money Network/My Banking Direct
for a replacement. Family Leave does not offer Direct Deposit. However, you can arrange for your benefits to be automatically transferred from your debit card account to your personal checking or savings account by contacting Money Network/My Banking Direct.
Once your claim has been determined eligible, payments are usually issued on a weekly basis. However, there are times during your claim where your payment may cover a period of more than one week.
Family Leave During Unemployment benefits are paid in full weeks only. A full week runs from Sunday through Saturday.
No federal income tax is withheld from your benefits unless you request this deduction when applying online or by mail.
You may receive benefits until you return to work, exhaust your maximum benefit entitlement, or the benefit year of your claim expires.
Reasons Benefits May be Reduced or Denied:
Family Leave During Unemployment benefits are
NOT
payable for:
any period of bonding or caregiving that is less than a 7-day period. You may only take your leave in a full week period, from Sunday through Saturday;
any period that you receive Unemployment Insurance benefits, Temporary Disability Insurance benefits, any benefits from a disability or cash sickness program or similar law of New Jersey, another state or the federal government;
any period when you receive full salary or paid time off;
any period during which you perform any work for remuneration or profit;
any period during which you would be disqualified under the Unemployment Compensation Law for voluntarily quitting your job, termination due to misconduct or gross misconduct, refusal of suitable work, or fraud;
any period of family leave to care for a family member who is not under the care or supervision of a health care provider;
a school employee during any period between academic years, terms or school-wide recess, when you have reasonable assurance of returning to work in the same or similar capacity when school resumes;
any period you are out of work due to a labor dispute at your place of work.
Tax Information:
Family Leave During Unemployment benefits under are not taxable for New Jersey state income tax purposes. However, benefits are subject to federal income tax. You may voluntarily request to have 10% of your weekly benefits withheld. If you are interested in having federal income tax withheld from your weekly benefits, contact Family Leave During Unemployment in writing at:
Family Leave During Unemployment
P.O. Box 956
Trenton, NJ 08625-0956
After the end of each calendar year, Form 1099-G will be available in our online system for you to
download
and use when filing your federal income tax return. This form lists the total New Jersey State Family Leave During Unemployment benefits received that calendar year. This information is also sent to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
Appeals:
If you disagree with any written determination you receive from the Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance,
you may file an appeal.
Each determination contains a written statement concerning your appeal rights.
Your appeal must be received or postmarked within seven days after delivery or ten days after the date of the mailing of the determination, except an appeal from a Demand for Refund. Any appeal from a Demand for Refund must be received or postmarked within 20 calendar days after delivery of the notice or 24 days after the mailing date of the notice.
When an appeal is filed, you will be notified by mail of the date and time of an appeals hearing. Be sure to be available at the phone whose number you provided on your claim. If you will not be available during your scheduled hearing, you must notify the appeals office as soon as possible so your hearing can be rescheduled.
Your telephone interview with an Appeal Tribunal examiner will not cost you anything. It is not necessary to have an attorney present during the hearing, but you can be represented by an attorney or any other person you choose. You will be notified of the results of the hearing by mail.
Independent Medical Examinations:
If your claim is for caring for a family member, your loved one may be required to have a physical examination completed by a state-appointed physician. The examination is a routine procedure of this agency to insure that family leave benefits are being paid properly and do not affect the relationship between you and your family member's health care provider.
There is no charge to you or your family member for this examination and the results of the examination will be kept confidential. Your family member will be referred to a doctor located as close as possible to their home.
Important:
Your Family Leave benefits may be terminated if your family member is scheduled for an examination and does not report.
If You Are Planning to Apply for Unemployment after Family Leave:
If the benefit year on your Family Leave claim has not expired, the Unemployment Insurance Office will use the same start date when setting up your Unemployment claim. An Unemployment agent will notify FLDU that you are applying for Unemployment Insurance benefits and will move your claim to the jurisdiction of the Unemployment Insurance Office. You may receive the same weekly benefit rate for Unemployment Insurance as you received during your Family Leave During Unemployment claim. Your maximum benefit amount (the total you may be eligible for with FLDU and Unemployment combined) will be one and one half times the maximum benefit amount approved on your Unemployment Insurance claim.
I am currently collecting Unemployment Insurance. How do I stop collecting Unemployment, and apply for Family Leave Insurance benefits?
The best way to transition from Unemployment Insurance to FLDU is to stop claiming weekly Unemployment benefits. You do not need to notify the Division of Unemployment Insurance that you are no longer collecting benefits from them, simply stop certifying weekly. Once you stop certifying for Unemployment, complete an
application for Family Leave Insurance
and submit it. Once we receive your application and see that you fit the criteria for Family Leave During Unemployment we will temporarily deny your application as a way of routing it to the proper section of FLDU. While your application is being routed to the proper section, you may notice your online claim status says "Ineligible."  This temporary denial is simply our internal process of reassigning your claim and has no reflection on the content of your application. Once a Family Leave During Unemployment examiner receives your application, it will be reviewed for claim approval.The time between when you stop certifying for weekly Unemployment benefits and when FLDU starts paying you will cause a temporary disruption in benefits as it will take time for your new application to make its way to FLDU. You will be paid retroactively by Family Leave During Unemployment benefits for this period.
Will I receive the increased 85% benefit rate and the expanded duration of Family Leave benefits?
Since Family Leave During Unemployment is a hybrid of the Unemployent and Family Leave programs, people receiving FLDU benefits are eligible for the expanded duration of benefits (up to 12 weeks of continuous leave) but not for the expanded benefit rate percentage. FLDU pays claims at the Unemployment rate of 60% of your wages up to $854 (in 2024) per week, NOT at the Family Leave benefit rate. However, you
may
receive the longer benefit duration of up to 12 weeks of continuous leave, provided you have not already received one and one-half times the maximum benefit duration on your Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Insurance.
Maximum Duration:
When transitioning from one program to another, the maximum amount of benefits you can collect
total
(during Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment, and Family Leave During Unemployment benefits combined) is one and one-half times the maximum benefit amount of your initial Unemployment Insurance or Disability During Unemployment claim (up to a maximum of 39 weeks of benefits).
Can I collect 39 weeks of benefits if I am transitioning from one program to another, such as Unemployment to FLDU?
The longest a claimant can collect when combining benefits from one program to another (Unemployment/Disability During Unemployment and Family Leave Insurance) is capped at a maximum of 39 benefit weeks. But not everyone is entitled to 39 weeks if it is more than one and one-half times
your
maximum benefit amount.
Unemployment or Disability During Unemployment Maximum Benefit Amount=
the number of weeks you worked (up to 26 weeks) during the
base year
period times your weekly benefit rate. Since it is based on
your
employment before the claim began, everyone's maximum benefit amount and duration is unique to their individual claim.
Print an Application
Although the quickest way to apply is online, you can print out a paper application to submit by mail or fax if you prefer.
DOWNLOAD HERE >
Contact FLDU
Phone:
609-292-3349 / 609-292-3842
Fax:
609-292-9209
Family Leave Insurance During Unemployment
PO Box 956 | Trenton | NJ | 08625-0956
COMPLETE INQUIRY FORM >
Read our Printable Handout
Download our helpful guide on cash benefits for employees who need to bond with a new child or care for a loved one, but haven’t worked recently and/or are collecting unemployment benefits.
click here for the FLDU handout
DOWNLOAD NOW >
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Statewide
Governor Phil Murphy
Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ Home
Services A to Z
Departments/Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
Privacy Notice
Legal Statement & Disclaimers
Accessibility Statement
Copyright © State of New Jersey, 1996-
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
1 John Fitch Plaza,
Trenton, NJ 08625
Tax Season Is Here!
×
If you collected Family Leave During Unemployment benefits in 2023, don't forget to log in to your account and
download a 1099-G form
for your 2023 tax return.
Close
×