Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance | FAQ: Family Leave Insurance
Skip to content
XL
LG
MD
SM
XS
Official Site of The State of New Jersey
Governor Phil Murphy • Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ.gov
Services
Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Translate
The State of NJ site may contain optional links, information, services and/or content from other websites operated by third parties that are provided as a convenience, such as Google™ Translate. Google™ Translate is an online service for which the user pays nothing to obtain a purported language translation. The user is on notice that neither the State of NJ site nor its operators review any of the services, information and/or content from anything that may be linked to the State of NJ site for any reason. -
Read Full Disclaimer
close
Get Updates
close
Search
close
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
Home
File or Access Your Claim
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Leave
Unemployment Insurance
Social Security Disability
Worker Protections
Your Rights at Work
Workers' Compensation
Safety and Health
Licenses & Permits
Wage & Hour Compliance
Paid Sick Leave
Career Support
Career Services
Find a Job
Resume Writing Guidance
Vocational Rehabilitation Services
Apprenticeship Opportunities
Training Provider Information
Employer Services
Employer Accounts
Register a New Business
File a Quarterly Report
Employer Access
Employer Handbook
Employer Self-Service (NLx)
Layoffs and Closings
Shared Work Program
File a WARN notice
Wage & Hour Compliance
Equal Pay Act Reporting
Business Support
Return and Earn Program
Apprenticeship
Industry Partnerships
Employer Poster Packet
Research & Information
Labor Market Information
Center for Occupational Employment
Information (COEI)
Grant Opportunities
CARE Grant Program
Workforce Innovation &
Opportunity Act (WIOA)
Legal Notices
Press Releases
About Us
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Home
Need Help?
Frequently Asked Questions
FAQ: Family Leave Insurance
FAQ: Family Leave Insurance
Family Leave Insurance provides New Jersey workers cash benefits for up to twelve weeks to bond with a newborn or newly placed adoptive, or foster child, to provide care for a seriously ill or injured loved one, or to handle matters related to domestic and/or sexual violence.
Before You File
After You Submit
an Application
Once You Receive
a Decision
How do I apply for Family Leave Insurance benefits?
You can
apply online
, which is the easiest way to apply for benefits. Once you submit your application, you will get immediate confirmation that we received it.
You can download, print, and fill out
a paper application (FL-1)
, and mail it back to us at Division of Temporary Disability & Family Leave Insurance, P.O. Box 387, Trenton, NJ 08625-0387, or fax it to 609-984-4138.
Who is eligible for Family Leave Insurance benefits?
Any New Jersey worker who contributes to the state plan for Family Leave Insurance, or an approved private plan may be eligible. Check your pay stubs or ask your employer if you’re not sure about your coverage.
Do I have to live in New Jersey to receive Family Leave Insurance benefits?
You may be eligible to receive benefits if you work in New Jersey, regardless of where you live.
Do I need to apply for all of my Family Leave benefits at once?
You do not need to claim your Family Leave benefit days all at one time. You can claim Family Leave Insurance benefits in one continuous period, or on a day-by-day basis to suit your needs. However, the manner in which you choose to claim your leave will determine the duration of leave that you are entitled to.
Continuous Leave: You may receive up to 12 weeks of benefits within a 12-month period, if the benefits are claimed for one continuous period of unpaid leave.
Non-Continuous (intermittent) Leave: If you are claiming benefits on an intermittent schedule, whether it be a week, a month, or a day at a time, you may receive up to 56 individual days (8 weeks) of Family Leave benefits within a 12-month period. If you take your leave in a non-continuous manner, let us know those dates
after
taking each segment. If you are approved for Family Leave Insurance benefits but do not initially claim your maximum duration of leave when filing, we will mail you a
Continued Claim Certification (FL3)
, which includes a schedule that you must fill out and sign – showing the days you
did not work
during the period. You will need to submit an updated schedule after each period of leave is completed.
Can I claim a continuous period of leave for less than 12 weeks (84 days)?
Yes. You may claim family leave for any length of time you need. 12 weeks is the
maximum
duration of leave you can claim, provided there are no gaps or days worked interspersed throughout your claim.
Example:
John claims family leave from November 1
st
– January 10
th
(10 weeks). After being approved for this time, he wants to add additional days to the end of his leave because he never returned to work. He claims two more weeks of leave beginning on January 11
th
(picking up right where his family leave left off). Since there are no gaps in his leave, he is able to claim 12 weeks of benefits.
Can I collect Family Leave Insurance benefits to care for a loved one undergoing a gender affirmation procedure?
Yes, as long as your loved one’s
medical provider
certifies their need for your care.
I have returned to work after claiming family leave benefits. Can I claim additional benefits within my 12-month period?
It depends on how many days you have already claimed. Remember, claims broken up into multiple periods of leave can receive up to 56 days (8 weeks). If at the time that you stopped claiming benefits - you have already claimed 56 days
or more
, you will have claimed the maximum duration available to you.  Once there is a gap in your family leave claim, whether you returned to work or just didn’t claim benefits for those days, you cannot claim additional benefits if it causes your total claim length to exceed 56 days.
Example
- John claimed 11 weeks of benefits and returned to work for one day. John cannot claim any additional leave because he returned to work and has already claimed more than the maximum for intermittent claims (56 days). Therefore, John’s claim ended after he received 11 continuous weeks of benefits and returned to work.
To the contrary:
If John claimed three weeks of family leave and returned to work for one day, he would have five remaining weeks of family leave benefits left until he reaches the maximum for claims with multiple periods of leave (56 days).
My child’s school has mandatory remote learning, or my child’s school or place of care is closed, due to COVID-19, and I can’t work. Can I get Family Leave Insurance benefits for this?
No. Mandatory remote learning is not a qualifying reason to receive Family Leave Insurance benefits. However, you may be eligible for Family Leave benefits if your child has an illness, injury, or underlying health condition that prevents them from returning to school in person. You may also be eligible to receive Family Leave benefits if your child who is participating in remote learning has a diagnosed mental health condition, including ADHD, and you are unable to work because they require your care. To receive Family Leave benefits, your child’s healthcare provider must certify your child’s physical or mental health condition and the need for your care. You may be eligible for other benefits and protections in addition to Family Leave Insurance. Please see our
back to school webpage
for more information.
Is there a time limit for applying for Family Leave Insurance benefits?
You have 30 days from the first day of your leave to file your claim. If your claim is received more than 30 days after the first day of your leave, you must provide a reason why the claim was not filed on time. Benefits may be reduced or denied for late applications.
Do I need to notify my employer if I plan to apply for Family Leave Insurance benefits?
For bonding claims: You must give your employer 30 days’ notice if taking your family leave bonding in one continuous period, and 15 days' notice if taking your leave in a non-continuous manner.
For caregiving claims: You must give your employer reasonable notice if taking your leave in one continuous period, unless there are unforeseen or emergency circumstances. If taking your leave in a non-continuous manner, you must give your employer 15 days' notice before each anticipated absence.
Can my employer require me to use paid time off before receiving Family Leave benefits?
Your employer cannot require you to use company paid time off. If you choose to use accrued sick or vacation time, this will not reduce your Family Leave benefit days. Those days can be used
i
n addition
to
claiming the maximum Family Leave benefits to which you are entitled.
I am a school employee on a school-wide recess. Can I receive Family Leave Insurance benefits?
School employees on a recess, or a break between academic years, cannot receive benefits.
What if I work a second job during school breaks?
If you work a second job during a school-wide recess or break, you may qualify for benefits using the wages from that other job.
I have to care for a family member who lives out-of-state or out-of-country. Can I still receive benefits?
Even if you must travel to care for your family member, you may still qualify for benefits.
Am I required to take all of my Family Leave Insurance benefits at one time?
Family Leave benefit days can be taken in one continuous period, or in individual days to suit your needs. If taking leave in one continuous period, you may claim up to 12 weeks (84 days)in a 12-month period. If taking leave on an intermittent basis, you may claim up to 8 weeks (56 days) in a 12-month period.
Do my partner and I have to claim our Family Leave Insurance benefits at the same time?
No, although you may take leave at the same time if you wish. New parents can stagger their leave so they receive benefits for different time periods during their baby’s first year.
If taking intermittent leave – individual days or separate weeks – how and when will I get my money?
You must certify that you did not work on the days you are claiming. To do this, you must sign your partial leave schedule
after
you have taken those days off. You then need to send us the signed schedule or we can’t pay your benefits.
What is the difference between Family Leave Insurance (FLI) and the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) or the New Jersey Family Leave Act (NJFLA)? Is my employer required to hold my job for me if I get Family Leave benefits?
New Jersey Family Leave Insurance (FLI) is a partial wage-replacement program. It does
not
guarantee employer-approved time off or job protection.
However, your job may be protected under the federal
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
or the
New Jersey Family Leave Act (NJFLA)
, which require covered employers to provide their employees with unpaid, job-protected leave for up to 12 weeks. You must apply for FMLA protection directly with your employer.
These programs
are not related
, and you may be eligible for Family Leave Insurance benefits whether or not your job is protected under FMLA or NJFLA.
I was collecting Unemployment benefits. Can I now collect Family Leave Insurance?
Benefits may be payable under the
Family Leave During Unemployment
benefits program. You must meet the eligibility requirements of the Unemployment Compensation law, except for establishing availability for work. You must notify the
Division of Unemployment Insurance
immediately to suspend your unemployment claim.
How is the Family Leave Insurance program funded?
It is completely financed by worker payroll deductions.  Employers do not contribute to the program.
For 2023, workers contribute 0.06% on the first $156,800 (
wage cap
) in covered wages earned during this calendar year. The maximum worker contribution for 2023 is $94.08. This contribution is in the form of a salary deduction that your employer takes from your weekly wages.
For 2024, workers contribute 0.09% on the first $161,400 (
wage cap
) in covered wages earned during this calendar year. The maximum worker contribution for 2024 is $145.26. This contribution is in the form of a salary deduction that your employer takes from your weekly wages.
I am currently receiving Temporary Disability benefits for my pregnancy. When can I apply for Family Leave Insurance benefits to bond with my newborn?
You will need to have your doctor send us certification of when you delivered, whether the birth was a C-section, and when you are expected to recover. About a month after you give birth, the Division of Temporary Disability will mail you instructions for
filing a transitional bonding claim online
. You will receive the same weekly benefit as your current disability benefit.
If you choose to wait to apply for Family Leave Insurance benefits for bonding, you have up until your child's first birthday to
complete a new, non-transitional claim
.
How long does it take to get a decision after applying?
Applications are processed in the order in which they are received. However, if your claim does not contain all the required information, it will take longer to process. It is important that you answer every question on your portion of the form. You must also have the care recipient's medical provider, if applicable, submit their information as soon as possible to have your application processed and any benefits paid promptly.
When will my benefits begin?
Family Leave Insurance does not have any waiting period restrictions built into it. Benefits are issued for each family leave day claimed, immediately after they are approved.
How much money will I receive each week? How is my benefit amount calculated?
1. First, we calculate your average weekly wage
. We do this by dividing your base year earnings by the number of base weeks.
In 2023, a
"base week"
is any week you earned $260 or more. In 2024, a
"base week"
is any week you earn $283 or more.
2. Now, we can determine your weekly benefit rate.
Claimants are paid 85% of their average weekly wage, up to the maximum weekly benefit rate set for that calendar year.
In 2023, the maximum weekly benefit rate is $1,025 per week. In 2024, the maximum weekly benefit rate is $1,055 per week.
For example, let’s say Steve's first day of family leave is Friday, March 1, 2024. To see how much he would receive weekly on Family Leave Insurance, we look at his reported wages for the first four of the last five completed quarters:
Previous Completed Quarters
Timeframe Covered
Total Earnings
Number of Base Weeks
Quarter 5
10/1/23 - 12/31/23
$5,500
13 base weeks
Quarter 4
7/1/23 - 9/30/23
$5,000
12 base weeks
Quarter 3
4/1/23 - 6/30/23
$5,000
12 base weeks
Quarter 2
1/1/23 - 3/31/23
$4,000
10 base weeks
Quarter 1
10/1/22 - 12/31/22
$4,200
11 base weeks
Quarters 1 through 4 are the regular base year and the timeframe used to calculate his benefits.
Total base year earnings:
$18,200 which we divide by 45 (the number of base weeks)
This gives us an
average weekly wage
of $404.
Steve’s weekly benefit rate is 85 % of his average weekly wage:
$343
If Steve is taking his leave on a day by day basis, he will receive 1/7 of his weekly benefit rate for each day he claims.
What is the maximum benefit amount I can receive?
Workers receive benefits for up to 12 weeks (84 days) during a 12-month period if taking leave in one continuous period, and up to 8 weeks (56 days) in a 12-month period if taking your leave intermittently.
If you have not claimed your maximum benefit amount, you may reestablish a claim within the same 12-month period to care for a different family member, or during or following employment with a different employer.
My address changed (or the address in my file is wrong). How do I correct it?
You can change your address in our records by logging in to your account and
updating your online profile
. Otherwise, you must notify us in writing of a new or corrected address.
Be sure your letter includes:
Your full name
Your former address
Your new complete address
Your Social Security number – we cannot identify your claim without it
Your signature and the date
Mail the letter to: Division of Temporary Disability & Family Leave Insurance, P.O. Box 387, Trenton, NJ 08625-0387.
I lost or did not receive a form. How do I get another one?
If you filed online, you can access some forms online by
clicking here
and logging in to your account. For everything else, call us 609-292-7060 so we can have our computer system send a new form to you right away.
I received benefits for bonding with my newborn earlier this year. Can I apply for benefits to care for a family member now?
Yes, but only if you haven’t maxed out your annual benefit entitlement. Claimants are limited to the maximum days available to them based on the start of their leave, regardless of the reason for the leave.
My claim was determined eligible (approved). Why do I keep receiving forms in the mail?
If you do not initially request the maximum amount of benefits, you will receive a
Family Leave Insurance Continued Claim Certification form (FL-3)
after your application is approved. If you need to continue caring for a family member or bonding with a child, use this form to extend your Family Leave Insurance benefits.
I disagree with the decision made. Can I appeal?
Yes. The determination you received comes with a written statement explaining your appeal rights. For more information, see
Appeals
.
Are Family Leave Insurance benefits taxable?
Family Leave Insurance benefits are considered taxable income for purposes of the federal income tax. They are not considered taxable for purposes of the New Jersey gross income tax. When you apply, you can choose to have 10% of your benefits withheld for federal income tax. At the end of each calendar year, you will need to obtain a 1099-G form
online
.
Related Topics
Debit Card Information
The Appeals Process
11 Reasons Applications Are Denied
Read our Printable Handout
Download our helpful guide on Family Leave Insurance.
Download Now
DOWNLOAD NOW >
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Statewide
Governor Phil Murphy
Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ Home
Services A to Z
Departments/Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
Privacy Notice
Legal Statement & Disclaimers
Accessibility Statement
Copyright © State of New Jersey, 1996-
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
1 John Fitch Plaza,
Trenton, NJ 08625