Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance | When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
Skip to content
XL
LG
MD
SM
XS
Official Site of The State of New Jersey
Governor Phil Murphy • Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ.gov
Services
Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Translate
The State of NJ site may contain optional links, information, services and/or content from other websites operated by third parties that are provided as a convenience, such as Google™ Translate. Google™ Translate is an online service for which the user pays nothing to obtain a purported language translation. The user is on notice that neither the State of NJ site nor its operators review any of the services, information and/or content from anything that may be linked to the State of NJ site for any reason. -
Read Full Disclaimer
close
Get Updates
close
Search
Search:
close
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
Home
File or Access Your Claim
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Leave
Unemployment Insurance
Social Security Disability
Worker Protections
Your Rights at Work
Workers' Compensation
Safety and Health
Licenses & Permits
Wage & Hour Compliance
Paid Sick Leave
Career Support
Career Services
Find a Job
Resume Writing Guidance
Vocational Rehabilitation Services
Apprenticeship Opportunities
Training Provider Information
Employer Services
Employer Accounts
Register a New Business
File a Quarterly Report
Employer Access
Employer Handbook
Employer Self-Service (NLx)
Layoffs and Closings
Shared Work Program
File a WARN notice
Wage & Hour Compliance
Equal Pay Act Reporting
Business Support
Return and Earn Program
Apprenticeship
Industry Partnerships
Employer Poster Packet
Research & Information
Labor Market Information
Center for Occupational Employment
Information (COEI)
Grant Opportunities
CARE Grant Program
Workforce Innovation &
Opportunity Act (WIOA)
Legal Notices
Press Releases
About Us
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
Find out how to get benefits when you can't work due to a non-work-related illness or injury.
Workers: Apply Online
Start an application
Finish an application you started
Access an Existing Claim
Check claim status
Extend or end a claim
Update your name or address
Access claim documents
For Employers
For Healthcare Providers
Here’s How to Get Started:
1 of 6
BEFORE YOU BEGIN
Check out our video tutorial. It'll guide you through the process with detailed step-by-step instructions. Plus you'll get helpful tips for completing your application.
WATCH THE VIDEO NOW >
2 of 6
Step 1: Create an Account
If you don't already have an account for our secure online system,
click here
and follow the prompts from the "First Time User?" button.
3 of 6
Step 2: Start an Application
You'll then be directed to the first page of the application. Read it and click the box to confirm you agree with the terms before filling out the rest of the pages.
4 of 6
Step 3: Print Instruction Forms
After your parts are complete, you'll be prompted to print instructions with a unique Online Form ID number. Give them to your healthcare provider so they can complete their part online.
5 of 6
Step 4: Await Your Decision
Applications are processed in the order in which they are received. You can stay up-to-date by checking your claim status
here
.
6 of 6
Step 5: If Approved, Access Your Funds
If we approve your application, we'll mail you a debit card to access your benefit payments. For more information about how the debit card works,
click here
.
Before You Apply
How to Apply
After You Apply
Private Plan Insurance
About the Program
Temporary Disability Insurance provides cash
benefits
to New Jersey workers who have to stop working due to a physical or mental health condition or other disability unrelated to their work. The healthcare provider certifies how long you need to recover from your medical condition, up to a maximum of 26 weeks. Most employers in New Jersey are required to have Temporary Disability Insurance for their employees.
Employers may choose an insurance plan offered by the state or by a private insurance company. Ask your employer which coverage you have. If you are covered by the state plan, apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits
online via our secure system
. If you are covered by a private insurance company, your employer will tell you how to file a claim.
Click here
for more information about private plan Temporary Disability Insurance.
Who Qualifies for State Benefits
New Jersey workers are encouraged to apply.
In order to have a valid claim for Temporary Disability Insurance, you need to have paid into the program through your employment and meet minimum gross earnings requirements. Temporary Disability Insurance is available to most New Jersey workers.
Exemptions include:
federal government employees
optional for local government, including school district employees
out-of-state employees
faith-based organizations
workers that are not technically employees (such as properly classified independent contractors).
If your employer is covered for Temporary Disability Insurance, they are required to set up payroll contributions for you. If you believe you are covered under the program but payroll contributions have not been made, you are still encouraged to apply as it may have been an error.  If you became unemployed recently and have a need for Temporary Disability Insurance, you still may be eligible for benefits and we encourage you to apply. In that case, we will forward your application to our
Disability During Unemployment
section.
How Much I Need to Earn to Qualify
Your employer is required to report your wages to the state after each calendar quarter. When your claim is under review, we consider the earnings reported for the 5 completed quarters prior to the week your disability began. The first 4 quarters of that time frame is called the
base year
.
To qualify for Temporary Disability Insurance in 2023, you must have worked 20 weeks earning at least $260 weekly, or have earned a combined total of $13,000 in the base year.
To qualify for Temporary Disability Insurance in 2024, you must have worked 20 weeks earning at least $283 weekly, or have earned a combined total of $14,200 in the base year.
Your regular base year period consists of 52 weeks and is determined by the date you apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits, as outlined in the chart below:
If your claim is dated in:
Your claim is based on
earnings from:
January 2024
February 2024
March 2024
October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023
April 2024
May 2024
June 2024
January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023
July 2024
August 2024
September 2024
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
October 2024
November 2024
December 2024
July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024
The wages earned during your base year will determine the amount of weekly benefits you may receive, and the total amount you can receive throughout the life of a claim.
For workers who don't qualify with a standard base year, we have other ways of calculating a base year.
Click here
for more information on these alternate base years.
How the Program Is Funded
Both New Jersey workers and employers contribute to the cost of the temporary disability program. Workers contribute through deductions taken out of their paychecks.
For 2022, workers contribute 0.14% on the first $151,900 (
wage cap
) in covered wages earned during this calendar year. The maximum worker contribution for 2022 is $212.66. This contribution is in the form of a salary deduction that your employer takes from your weekly wages.
There will be no Temporary Disability worker contribution deductions for the 2023 and 2024 calendar years.
How Benefits Are Calculated
First, we calculate your average weekly wage
. We do this by dividing your base year earnings by the number of base weeks.
In 2023, a "
base week
" was any week you earned $260 or more. In 2024, a "
base week
" is any week you earn $283 or more.
2. Now, we can determine your weekly benefit rate.
Claimants are paid 85% of their average weekly wage, up to the maximum weekly benefit rate set for that calendar year.
In 2023, the maximum weekly benefit rate is $1,025 per week.
In 2024, the maximum weekly benefit rate is $1,055 per week.
For example, let’s say Steve's first day of disability is Friday, March 1, 2024. To see how much he would receive weekly on Temporary Disability Insurance, we look at his reported wages for the first four of the last five completed quarters:
Previous Completed Quarters
Timeframe Covered
Total Earnings
Number of Base Weeks
Quarter 5
10/1/23 - 12/31/23
$5,500
13 base weeks
Quarter 4
7/1/23 - 9/30/23
$5,000
12 base weeks
Quarter 3
4/1/23 - 6/30/23
$5,000
12 base weeks
Quarter 2
1/1/23 - 3/31/23
$4,000
10 base weeks
Quarter 1
10/1/22 - 12/31/22
$4,200
11 base weeks
Quarters 1 through 4 are the regular base year and the timeframe used to calculate his benefits.
Total base year earnings:
$18,200 which we divide by 45 (the number of base weeks)
This gives us an
average weekly wage
of $404.
Steve’s weekly benefit rate is 85% of his average weekly wage:
$343.
Work-Related Disabilities
If you become disabled due to an injury or illness related to your job, contact the
Division of Workers' Compensation
.
If your disability is work-related and your employer's workers' compensation carrier denies you benefits or stops benefit payments, you may file an application with us.
To be eligible, you must:
Meet all the requirements of the
Temporary Disability Benefits law
,
and
File a
formal claim petition
with the Division of Workers' Compensation,
and
Agree to reimburse the Division of Temporary Disability Insurance if you are awarded Workers' Compensation benefits.
Most individuals
consult with an attorney
when filing a
formal claim petition
with the Division of Workers’ Compensation.
How to Apply for Benefits
You can apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits
online
,
in the mail, or by fax
. Instructions are included on the application. Read all the instructions carefully before completing the application. If filing by mail or fax, don’t forget to sign and date the form.
When you apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits, we’ll need information from you, and
your medical provider
. It is
your
responsibility to have all this information – including the medical provider part – submitted to us online, by mail, or by fax.
This is the information we need to complete your application:
From you:
Your Social Security number, contact information, and date of birth
The date you became disabled
Contact information for the medical provider who treated you within 10 days of the first day you were unable to work
Dates of any emergency/urgent care treatment or hospitalizations
Dates you worked for any employers in the last 18 months, the employers’ contact information, and the address(es) where you worked
Dates of any paid time off or other benefits you received after the last day you worked
The date when you expect to recover and return to work (or the date you recovered and returned to work)
From your doctor:
A medical certification to confirm the period you are unable to work. Find printable guidance for your medical provider
here
.
When you complete your part online, you will get a unique
Online Form ID
number to give to your medical provider. They will use this number to submit their part to us online. You will be prompted to print out (or save as a PDF file) a page that has your unique Online Form ID number, along with instructions for your medical provider to follow. If you do not have access to a printer when initially filing your application, you have a fourteen day window to return and print the instructions when a printer is available. You can do so by clicking
Access claim documents
at the top of this page.
If planning ahead, you may start your online application up to 60 days in advance for a planned medical procedure or pregnancy claim. To avoid deletion of your draft application: (1) within 14 days of starting the
application
, provide all information and confirm your claim; then (2) within 14 days after the start of your
leave
, certify and file your claim. If applying after your disability period begins, you have 30 days from your first day of disability to file your application.
How to Receive Benefits Quickly
We would like to process your application quickly, but can’t do it without your help.
Keep these tips in mind to avoid delays and receive your benefits faster:
Apply online.
It’s faster than printing and mailing or faxing your application to us. It also allows your medical provider to easily complete their section online once they get the required instructions from you. Remember, it is your responsibility to give these instructions to the medical provider to complete – they are
not
automatically notified by us. If you do apply online, do not also submit your application by mail or fax. That may delay the processing of your application.
Fill out your application completely and accurately
. Read all instructions first. If you’re not sure how to answer a question,
check out our FAQ
or
Form Look Up
pages for more information. If you still need help, contact us.
Include your Social Security number
on all correspondence.
Don’t fax us pictures of documents
. If you want to submit a digital copy of a document (such as a birth certificate), use a free mobile app like
Adobe Scan
or
Dropbox
to transform a mobile phone picture into a high-contrast, black-and-white PDF file you can print and fax.
Get ready to receive your payments
. Money Network/My Banking Direct will mail your prepaid debit card in a plain envelope (which might even look like junk mail), so check
all
your mail carefully. If you already have a debit card from a previous Temporary Disability, Family Leave, or Unemployment Insurance claim, we will use that same debit card account to pay benefits for new claims. If you can’t find your card,
contact Money Network/My Banking Direct
for a replacement.
Keeping Your Employer Informed
The Temporary Disability Benefits Law does not specify how far in advance you must notify your employer for medical leave, as many disabilities are unforeseeable circumstances. However, we encourage you to
keep your employer informed
whether your leave for medical reasons is scheduled in advance or not. Having an open discussion with your employer about your need for medical leave will allow them to prepare for your absence and make adjustments to work schedules, if necessary. Your employer may also be able to provide insight on job protection and if you qualify for it through the federal
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA).
Extending Your Claim
After you start receiving Temporary Disability Insurance benefits, we may ask you to provide us with proof of your continuing disability to keep receiving benefits.
Instructions on how to submit this information online will be mailed to you in a letter called the
Request to Claimant For Continued Claim Information, or P-30,
before your last authorized benefit payment.
At the top of this page, click the button that says “Extend or End a Claim,” and log in to your account. Just like when you filed initially, you will be prompted to print a page that has your unique
Online Form ID
number and instructions for your medical provider to file the continuing medical certification online.
Once we receive this information, we will review the request to extend your claim.
If you are unable to log into your account to get the unique Online Form ID for your medical provider, call us at 609-292-7060.
What Forms You’ll Receive
Here is a list of the important mail you’ll receive from us, in the order it’s typically sent:
C-05 - Confirmation of Claim Receipt
: This form lets you know we received your application. Don’t discard it! You’ll need it if you have to update any of your information (name, address, earlier return to work date, etc.).
D-10 - Eligible Notice:
This form tells you that your application for benefits has been approved.
D-30 - Ineligible Notice:
This form tells you that your application for benefits has been denied.
P-30 - Request to Claimant for Continued Claim Information:
If your Temporary Disability Insurance application is approved, we will send this form so you can extend or end your benefits online when the time comes.
You also may receive one or more of the following if your application contains missing or conflicting information:
C-10 - Request to Claimant for Information:
You’ll receive this form if your application has missing or conflicting information.
M-10 - Request for Medical Information:
You’ll receive this form if your application is missing medical information, if the medical information needs further review, or if your statement conflicts with the medical provider’s statement.
For more information about specific forms or notices, see our
Form Look Up page
.
How You’ll Get Your Money
Benefit payments are issued on a
debit card
sent to you directly by Money Network/My Banking Direct. You will receive this card in the mail in a plain, unmarked envelope once your application is approved.
Don’t lose it!
Payments are usually issued every two weeks after the initial payment, with a one-week lag for processing time. Once a payment is posted, funds should be available on your debit card within three business days of the payment date. Each day of benefits paid to you is one-seventh (1/7) of your weekly benefit rate. Payment may be more or less than a one-week period.
Social Security (FICA) and Medicare deductions are automatically withheld from your benefits. However, no federal income tax is withheld from your benefits unless you request a specific amount to be withheld weekly when you apply.
Benefits are paid until you recover and return to work, exhaust your maximum benefit entitlement, or receive benefits for 182 days.
Understanding Maximum Benefit Amounts
The most you can be paid for each period of disability is one-third (1/3) of the total wages you earned in
New Jersey covered employment
during the
base year
, or 26 times the weekly benefit amount, whichever is less.
How Temporary Disability Benefits Are Taxed
Temporary Disability Insurance benefits are considered taxable income for purposes of both the federal income tax and FICA (Social Security). Federal income tax will not be withheld from your benefit payment each week unless you request it when you file, or submit IRS form W-4S to us (for state plan claims) or your employer (for private plan claims). Your share of FICA and Medicare is automatically deducted from state plan benefit payments. Garnishments and any refunds owed from a previous disability or family leave claim will also be withheld from your benefit payments.
Temporary Disability Insurance benefits are not taxed by the State of New Jersey.
The amount of your benefits that is taxable will be reported to your employer in January of the year following the receipt of your benefits. It is your employer's responsibility to include that information on your W-2 annual earnings statement, often listed as "third party sick pay" or "other wages." Keep in mind, benefits are federally taxable during the year that payments are issued, which may not always match up with when your leave occurred. For example, if you file an application for a period of disability in December 2023 but payments are not issued until January 2024, they will not be included on your W-2 for 2023.
Is Your W-2 Missing Temporary Disability Tax Information?
If your Temporary Disability benefits are not reported on your W-2 (often listed as "third party sick pay" or "other wages"), contact your employer directly to have it corrected. The New Jersey Department of Labor does not issue W-2s to Temporary Disability Insurance recipients. If needed, let your employer know they can
download their year-end tax statement here
. For additional information on incorrect W-2s, go to:
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
.
How to File an Appeal
If you disagree with our decision, you may submit an appeal.
Click here
for more information about the appeals process.
How to Pay Back An Overpayment
Did you receive a Demand for Refund (P60) notice in the mail? We try to make the process of repayment as easy as possible.
Click here
for more information about the repayment process.
What Is Private Plan Temporary Disability Insurance?
The
Temporary Disability Benefits law
allows employers to provide coverage through an approved private plan instead of the state plan.
The plan may be insured by the employer, an insurance company, or a union welfare fund. Private plans vary from employer to employer. All private plans must be approved by the Division of Temporary Disability Insurance, Private Plan Operations. Private plans must offer
at least
the same benefit amounts, eligibility requirements, and duration of payments as the state plan.
If you are covered under a private plan, your employer's insurance carrier is responsible for processing and paying benefits on your disability claim. You can get an application from your employer, and they will tell you where to send it. If you send your application to the state instead, we will forward it to your insurance carrier. This will delay both the processing of your application and payment of any benefits.
If you experience any problems with your private plan claim, or if you have any questions, please contact the Private Plan Operations Claims Review Unit by completing
this online form
.
Who Pays for Private Plan Temporary Disability Insurance?
There will be no Temporary Disability employee contribution deductions for the 2023 and 2024 calendar years.
Temporary Disability Insurance benefits paid under a private plan may be subject to Social Security (FICA), medicare and federal income tax. For more information, contact your employer or private plan carrier. Temporary Disability Insurance benefits are not subject to New Jersey state income tax.
I submitted a claim and received notice of ineligibility due to my employer having a Private Plan. What does that mean?
Your employer does not use the state-provided insurance plan for their employees. Instead, they use an approved independent insurance plan. When the State Plan office receives applications that should have been filed directly under the Private Plan, they are forwarded to Private Plan Operations. It could take up to 4-5 weeks for your claim to be reviewed and transferred to the private insurer. The fastest way to find out that carrier's name and contact information is to ask your employer. In the meantime, your claim is being reviewed by our unit and then it will be transferred to your private insurance carrier.
What if I only work part-time/per diem or just started with the employer that has a Private Plan?
Your employment status (full-time vs part-time/per diem) and length of employment have no bearing on determining the chargeable employer on a claim or your eligibility status.
I have more than one employer, is it possible to collect Temporary Disability Insurance benefits under the Private Plan and the State Plan?
Temporary Disability benefits cannot be paid under a Private Plan and the State Plan. Once jurisdiction is determined, either the State Plan, Private Plan or Disability During Unemployment would be responsible for your claim,
taking into account earnings from all New Jersey covered employment during the base year
.
I exhausted my Temporary Disability Insurance benefits under my employer’s Private Plan, but I am still disabled. Can I now collect state plan benefits?
Since you are covered by a Private Plan, you cannot be paid state plan benefits even if you continue to be disabled.
Contact your local Social Security office
to ask about Social Security Disability benefits.
Appealing a Private Plan Decision
If you disagree with a decision made by a Private Plan insurance carrier, you have the right to appeal to the Division of Temporary Disability Insurance. You have one year from the date your disability began to file your appeal. You can send your written appeal to:
Division of Temporary Disability Insurance
Private Plan Operations
Claims Review Unit
P.O. Box 957
Trenton, NJ 08625-0957
FAX: 609-292-2537
or you can appeal
online.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get answers to common questions about Temporary Disability Insurance benefits, including the application process.
LEARN MORE >
Debit Card Information
We issue benefits on a prepaid Money Network/My Banking Direct debit card. Find out when to expect yours in the mail, and how to access your funds.
LEARN MORE >
Print an Application
Although the quickest way to apply is online, you can print out an application to submit by mail or
fax
if
you prefer
.
DOWNLOAD NOW >
Form Look Up
Not sure why you received a letter from us? Get information about the forms and notices we send.
LEARN MORE >
Approved Healthcare Providers
Here's a list of the medical practitioners approved by the division to submit medical information for both Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance.
LEARN MORE >
Printable Handouts for Workers
Our convenient guides about Temporary Disability Insurance are here for you to download and print.
LEARN MORE >
Read our Printable Handout
Download our helpful guide on cash benefits for health conditions.
click here for the Temporary Disability handout
DOWNLOAD NOW >
The Waiting Week, Explained
We know that no one wants to wait to get their money, but our Temporary Disability program has an unpaid week built into it by law.
The Waiting Week
LEARN MORE >
Appealing a Decision
Every decision notice we send has instructions for filing an appeal if you don’t agree with the decision. Here’s what to do next.
Appealing a Decision
LEARN MORE >
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Statewide
Governor Phil Murphy
Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ Home
Services A to Z
Departments/Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
Privacy Notice
Legal Statement & Disclaimers
Accessibility Statement
Copyright © State of New Jersey, 1996-
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
1 John Fitch Plaza,
Trenton, NJ 08625