Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance | FAQ: Temporary Disability Insurance
Skip to content
XL
LG
MD
SM
XS
Official Site of The State of New Jersey
Governor Phil Murphy • Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ.gov
Services
Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Translate
The State of NJ site may contain optional links, information, services and/or content from other websites operated by third parties that are provided as a convenience, such as Google™ Translate. Google™ Translate is an online service for which the user pays nothing to obtain a purported language translation. The user is on notice that neither the State of NJ site nor its operators review any of the services, information and/or content from anything that may be linked to the State of NJ site for any reason. -
Read Full Disclaimer
close
Get Updates
close
Search
close
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
Home
File or Access Your Claim
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Leave
Unemployment Insurance
Social Security Disability
Worker Protections
Your Rights at Work
Workers' Compensation
Safety and Health
Licenses & Permits
Wage & Hour Compliance
Paid Sick Leave
Career Support
Career Services
Find a Job
Resume Writing Guidance
Vocational Rehabilitation Services
Apprenticeship Opportunities
Training Provider Information
Employer Services
Employer Accounts
Register a New Business
File a Quarterly Report
Employer Access
Employer Handbook
Employer Self-Service (NLx)
Layoffs and Closings
Shared Work Program
File a WARN notice
Wage & Hour Compliance
Equal Pay Act Reporting
Business Support
Return and Earn Program
Apprenticeship
Industry Partnerships
Employer Poster Packet
Research & Information
Labor Market Information
Center for Occupational Employment
Information (COEI)
Grant Opportunities
CARE Grant Program
Workforce Innovation &
Opportunity Act (WIOA)
Legal Notices
Press Releases
About Us
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Home
Need Help?
Frequently Asked Questions
FAQ: Temporary Disability Insurance
FAQ: Temporary Disability Insurance
Temporary Disability Insurance provides cash benefits to workers who suffer an illness, injury, or other disability that prevents them from working, and wasn’t caused by their job. Most employers in New Jersey are required to have Temporary Disability Insurance for their employees.
Before You File
After You Apply
After You Get a Decision
Pregnancy-Related Questions
How do I apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits?
You can
apply online
, which is the easiest way to apply for benefits. Once you submit your application, you will get immediate confirmation that we received it.
You can download, print, and fill out a
paper application (DS-1)
, and mail it to us at: Division of Temporary Disability Insurance, P.O. Box 387, Trenton, NJ 08625-0387, or fax it to 609-984-4138.
Who is eligible for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits?
Any New Jersey worker who contributes to the state plan for Temporary Disability Insurance, or to an employer’s approved
private plan
, and meets the minimum gross earnings requirements, may be eligible. Check your pay stubs or ask your employer if you’re not sure about your coverage.
What are the Minimum Gross Earnings Requirements?
Your employer is required to report your wages to the state after each calendar quarter. When your claim is under review, we consider the earnings reported for the five completed quarters prior to the week your disability began. The first four quarters of that time frame is called the
base year
.  To qualify for Temporary Disability Insurance in 2024,
you must have worked 20 weeks earning at least $283 weekly, or have earned a combined total of $14,200 in those four quarters (the base year).
If your claim is dated in:
Your claim is based on
earnings from:
January 2024
February 2024
March 2024
October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023
April 2024
May 2024
June 2024
January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023
July 2024
August 2024
September 2024
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
October 2024
November 2024
December 2024
July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024
The wages earned during your base year will determine the amount of weekly benefits you may receive, and the total amount you can receive throughout the life of a claim.
For workers who don't qualify with a standard base year, we have other ways of calculating a base year.
Do I have to live in New Jersey to receive Temporary Disability Insurance benefits?
You may be eligible to receive benefits if you work in New Jersey, regardless of where you live.
Can my employer require me to use paid time off (PTO) before receiving Temporary Disability benefits?
Employers may be able to require employees to take paid time off (PTO) before Temporary Disability benefits. It depends on how they meet the requirements of the NJ Earned Sick Leave law. This law requires employers of all sizes to provide full-time, part-time, and temporary employees with up to 40 hours of paid sick time per year so they can care for themselves or a loved one.
Employers who separate NJ Earned Sick Leave from their PTO policy can require employees to take PTO before claiming Temporary Disability Insurance benefits. Employers cannot require them to take time accrued under the NJ Earned Sick Leave law.
Some employers use their PTO policy to follow the NJ Earned Sick Leave law. In this case, the employer may not require an employee to utilize any of their PTO prior to Temporary Disability benefits.
Check with your employer or HR professional to find out how they follow the NJ Earned Sick Leave law. If you believe your employer violates the Earned Sick Leave law, you may
file a complaint
with the Wage and Hour Division at NJDOL. You may still file for Temporary Disability benefits.
This is explained in more detail on our employer information page
here
.
Is there a time limit for applying for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits?
You have 30 days from the first day of your disability to file your application. If your application is received more than 30 days from the first day of your disability, you must provide a reason why the claim was not filed on time. Benefits may be reduced or denied for late applications.
Is my employer required to hold my job for me if I am collecting Temporary Disability Insurance benefits?
The
New Jersey Temporary Disability Insurance Law
does not require an employer to hold a job for someone who is receiving Temporary Disability Insurance benefits. However, you may have job protection rights under the federal
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
.
I know the date of my surgery. Can I apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits before I stop working?
If planning ahead, you may start your online application up to 60 days in advance. To avoid deletion of your draft application: (1) within 14 days of starting the
application
, provide all information and confirm your claim; then (2) within 14 days of starting your
leave
, certify and file your claim. Starting an online application prior to your disability period simply helps you get the paperwork in motion before becoming disabled. Because planned surgeries may be cancelled or rescheduled, we do not process applications ahead of time. Applications are processed in the order in which they are received.
Note: Starting an application prior to your disability period, can only be done using the
online
application.
Can I apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits more than once during a year?
There is no limit to the number of times you may apply for and receive benefits, but you must meet the eligibility requirements and have medical documentation for each new claim.
Can I collect Temporary Disability Insurance benefits if I am injured on the job?
If you have a work-related disability and you are denied benefits by your employer's workers' compensation carrier, you may apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits. For additional information, see
Work-Related Disabilities
.
Can I collect Temporary Disability Insurance benefits for gender affirmation treatments and surgeries?
Yes, as long as a
medical provider
certifies your need for leave.
I was receiving Unemployment Insurance benefits and then became disabled. Can I now apply for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits?
Yes. If you have not worked within 14 days of when you became disabled, you may be eligible for
Disability During Unemployment (DDU)
benefits, a combination of the Temporary Disability and Unemployment Insurance programs. The best way to transition from Unemployment Insurance to DDU is to stop claiming weekly Unemployment benefits. You do not need to notify the Division of Unemployment Insurance that you are no longer collecting benefits from them; simply stop certifying weekly. Once you stop certifying for Unemployment, complete an
application for Temporary Disability Insurance
and submit it. Once we receive your application and see that you meet the criteria for Disability During Unemployment, your application will be temporarily denied. You may notice that your online claim status will read “Ineligible,” but don’t worry as this temporary denial is simply our internal process of reassigning your claim to the proper section of DDU and has no reflection on the content of your application. Once a Disability During Unemployment examiner receives your application, it will be reviewed for claim approval. The time between when you stop certifying for weekly Unemployment benefits and when DDU starts paying you will cause a temporary disruption in benefits as it will take time for your new application to make its way to DDU. You will be paid retroactively by Disability During Unemployment benefits for this period.
I exhausted my Temporary Disability Insurance benefits under my employer’s private plan, but I am still disabled. Can I now collect state plan benefits?
Since you are covered by a
private plan
, you cannot be paid
state plan
benefits, even if you continue to be disabled. Contact your local
Social Security office
to ask about
Social Security Disability benefits
.
How long does it take to get a decision?
Applications are processed in the order in which they are received. However, if your application does not contain all the required information, it will take longer to process. It is important that you answer every question on your portion of the application. You also must have your medical provider submit their information as soon as possible to have your application processed and any benefits paid promptly.
When will my benefits begin?
We start paying benefits on the eighth consecutive day of your disability, due to a seven-day period called the
waiting week
. You will receive benefits for that week only if your disability continues for three or more consecutive weeks and you have not been paid by your employer.
How much money will I receive each week? How is my benefit amount calculated?
First, we calculate your average weekly wage
. We do this by dividing your base year earnings by the number of base weeks.  In 2024, a
"base week"
is any week you earn $283 or more.
Now, we can determine your weekly benefit rate.
Claimants are paid 85% of their average weekly wage, up to the maximum weekly benefit rate set for that calendar year.
In 2023, the maximum weekly benefit rate is $1,025 per week.
In 2024, the maximum weekly benefit rate is $1,055 per week.
For example, let’s say Steve's first day of disability is Friday, March 1, 2024. To see how much he would receive weekly on Temporary Disability Insurance, we look at his reported wages for the first four of the last five completed quarters:
Previous Completed Quarters
Timeframe Covered
Total Earnings
Number of Base Weeks
Quarter 5
10/1/23 - 12/31/23
$5,500
13 base weeks
Quarter 4
7/1/23 - 9/30/23
$5,000
12 base weeks
Quarter 3
4/1/23 - 6/30/23
$5,000
12 base weeks
Quarter 2
1/1/23 - 3/31/23
$4,000
10 base weeks
Quarter 1
10/1/22 - 12/31/22
$4,200
11 base weeks
Quarters 1 through 4 are the regular base year and the timeframe used to calculate his benefits.
Total base year earnings:
$18,200 which we divide by 45 (the number of base weeks)
This gives us an
average weekly wage
of $404.
Steve’s weekly benefit rate is 85 % of his average weekly wage:
$343.
My address has changed, or the address you have on record is wrong. How can I correct it?
You can change your address online by
clicking here
, or you can let us know in writing by mail or fax. Be sure to include your full name, your old address, your new address, your Social Security number, and sign and date the letter. Fax it to 609-984-4138, or mail to: Division of Temporary Disability Insurance P.O. Box 387, Trenton, NJ 08625-0387. Our customer service agents cannot accept address changes over the phone.
I lost or did not receive a form. How do I get another one?
If you filed online, you can access some forms online by
clicking here
and logging in to your account. For everything else, call us at 609-292-7060 so our computer system can generate a new form to be sent to you.
How often do I need to see my medical provider?
You must be under the care of a medical provider within 10 days of the date you first became disabled. After this initial treatment, there is no set requirement for how often you must see your medical provider. However, in order to keep receiving benefits, we may ask for proof from your doctor that you are still unable to work and under continuous medical care. We will send you a form in the mail (
P-30, Request to Claimant For Continued Claim Information
) with instructions on how to submit this information to us.
I returned to work or recovered from my disability. What should I do?
If you recovered or returned to work, let us know right away. If you received a
P30 - Request to Claimant for Continued Claim Information form
you can do so
online
. Otherwise send the
C05 - Notice to Claimant of Receipt of Claim form
you received when your claim was filed, to us at: Division of Temporary Disability Insurance P.O. Box 387, Trenton, NJ 08625-0387. You may also notify us by phone by calling 609-292-7060.
I represent the estate of a claimant who has passed away. How do I claim benefits to which the estate is entitled?
In the unfortunate event that the person who applied for Temporary Disability has passed away we will send a form P40 "Instructions for Claiming Benefits Due to a Deceased Person" to the address on file.  It explains how that person’s estate can claim any benefits to which it may be entitled.
What do I do with this form?
We need
notarized
copies of the following documents to issue benefits to an estate:
the claimant’s death certificate,
and
an affidavit issued by the Surrogate of the county in which the claimant resided,
and
the signed affidavit (Form P40) provided by this agency.
Send these notarized documents and the completed Instructions for Claiming Benefits Due to a Deceased Person (P40) form you received to: Division of Temporary Disability Insurance, PO Box 387, Trenton, NJ 08625-0387.
My claim was determined eligible (approved). Why do I keep receiving forms in the mail?
We send you forms in case you need to update any of your information, provide medical proof to continue receiving benefits, or let us know you recovered and returned to work. For more information about specific forms, see our
Form Lookup
page.
I disagree with the decision made. Can I file an appeal?
The decision you receive in the mail comes with a written statement explaining your appeal rights. For more information, see
Appeals
.
I got a notice to report to a state-appointed doctor for an impartial medical exam. Do I have to go even though I have my own doctor?
This exam is a routine procedure to make sure benefits are paid properly. It does not affect the relationship between you and your doctor. There is no charge to you for the exam and the results will be kept confidential. You will be referred to a doctor located as close as possible to your home. Failure to keep the appointment could cause your benefit payments to be stopped.
Are Temporary Disability Insurance benefits taxable?
Temporary Disability Insurance benefits are considered taxable income for purposes of both the federal income tax and FICA (Social Security). Federal income tax will
not
be withheld from your benefit payment each week unless you request it when you file, or submit
IRS form W-4S
to us (for state plan claims) or your employer (for private plan claims). Your share of FICA and medicare is automatically deducted from state plan benefit payments. Garnishments and any refunds owed from a previous disability or family leave claim will also be withheld from your benefit payments.
The amount of your benefits that is taxable will be reported to your employer in January of the year following the receipt of your benefits. Your employer will include that information on your W-2 annual earnings statement. The amount of your benefits that is taxable will be reported to your employer in January of the year following the receipt of your benefits. Your employer will include that information on your W-2 annual earnings statement, often listed as "third party sick pay" or "other wages." Keep in mind, benefits are federally taxable during the year that payments are issued, which may not always match up with when your leave occurred.
If your Temporary Disability benefits are not reported on your W-2, contact your employer directly to have it corrected. If needed, let your employer know they can
download their year-end tax statement here
. For additional information on incorrect W-2s, go to:
Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
.
I have exhausted my benefits but I am still disabled. What do I do now?
If you have received your maximum benefit amount but are still unable to return to work,
click here
to see other programs that may be of assistance to you.
Can I collect Temporary Disability Insurance benefits for my pregnancy?
Eligibility for Temporary Disability Insurance benefits due to pregnancy is determined in the same way as any other disability. You must meet the wage requirements, and your physician must certify that you are disabled and unable to work due to your pregnancy. For more information, see our
Maternity Coverage page
.
When should I apply for Temporary Disability Insurance if I’m pregnant?
If planning ahead, you may start your online application up to 60 days in advance. To avoid deletion of your draft application: (1) within 14 days of starting the
application
, provide all information and confirm your claim; then (2) within 14 days of starting your
leave
, certify and file your claim. If applying after disability period begins, you have 30 days from your first day of disability to file your application.
How long can I collect Temporary Disability Insurance benefits for my pregnancy?
Benefits are usually payable up to four weeks before the expected date of delivery, and six to eight weeks after you give birth, depending on how you delivered. If your doctor certifies that complications exist more than four weeks before your expected delivery date or longer than eight weeks after the birth, benefits may be payable for a longer period.
Can I collect Temporary Disability Insurance benefits if my doctor determines that my work environment is potentially harmful to my baby?
If you are physically able to do your job, but you are exposed to environmental risks at the worksite (for example, X-rays, radiation, or chemicals) Temporary Disability Insurance benefits are not payable because you are not disabled. In this situation, you may qualify for
Unemployment Insurance benefits
.
Can I collect Temporary Disability Insurance benefits if my baby is sick?
To receive Temporary Disability Insurance benefits,
you
must be disabled. However, you may be able to apply for
Family Leave Insurance benefits
.
Is my employer required to hold my job for me if I get Temporary Disability Insurance benefits for my pregnancy?
The
New Jersey Temporary Disability Insurance Law
does not require an employer to hold a job for someone who is receiving Temporary Disability Insurance benefits. However, you may have job protection rights under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA).
Related Topics
Debit Card Information
Appealing a Decision
11 Reasons Applications Are Denied
The Waiting Week, Explained
Read our Printable Handout
Download our helpful guide on cash benefits for health conditions.
Download Now
DOWNLOAD NOW >
Division of Temporary Disability and Family Leave Insurance
Home
Information for Workers
When You're Sick, Injured, or Post-Surgery
When You're Pregnant or Just Had a Baby
Fathers/Partners Bonding with Newborns
Parents Bonding with Newly Adopted Children
Caring for a Family Member
Coping with Domestic/Sexual Violence
Is Your Job Protected?
Applying for Benefits When You're Unemployed
Helpful Resources
Information for Employers
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Private Plan Information
Employer Toolkit
Helpful Resources
Information for Healthcare Providers
Submit a Medical Certification
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Helpful Resources
About Our Programs
Temporary Disability Insurance
Family Leave Insurance
Maternity Coverage
Job Protection Information
Listen to Our Podcasts
Program Statistics
Laws and Regulations
Need Help?
Contact Us
Get Help with Our Online System
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary of Terms
Additional Support & Assistance
Statewide
Governor Phil Murphy
Lt. Governor Tahesha Way
NJ Home
Services A to Z
Departments/Agencies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
Privacy Notice
Legal Statement & Disclaimers
Accessibility Statement
Copyright © State of New Jersey, 1996-
Department of Labor and Workforce Development
1 John Fitch Plaza,
Trenton, NJ 08625